One named Robinson, and I think the other was the name of Hammer.
And it was kind of like a Laura and a Hardy lash up there.
One was big and fat, and the other was real kind of skinny and small.
And we had been restricted probably three weekends in a row, and it was Saturday noon that was the last formation of the weekend.
Now, we ate all of our meals in the mess hall, but Saturday night and Sundays we didn't have formation.
So the last formation of the week was Saturday noon.
And we had Saturday classes, incidentally.
So we're standing.
We're out of our Saturday class.
We're standing in formation.
We're getting ready to move out, and we think, boy, we've got it made.
We're not going to be restricted.
And one of them turned around and said, well, Mr. Hammer, do you think we should restrict the freshmen?
Mr. Hammer said, I don't know why not.
And they looked at me, and I just blurted out, oh,
crap or worse to that effect, right in their face.
Well freshmen were not allowed to use profanity.
So they said Fishwood Hall come to my room after lunch.
So I went to their room and they handed me a bar of palm olive soap.
They said, eat it.
I said, I can't eat a bar of soap.
So I proceeded to eat a bar of soap.
They would let me spit it out, I didn't have to swallow it.
So I finally chewed up a bar of palm olive soap.
And you know, I've never used palm olive since that time.
So that was, you know, things like that went on all the time.
Let's see, was this the period when President Gilchrist ordered that all the hazing and all that?
That's what I was getting to.
Okay, we're going to stop the hazing.
Well, suddenly they,
I'm in bed one night and they come in and say, okay, get up and get dressed.
We've got a formation.
So we went out and we got in the formation.
It's middle of the night, you know, before midnight.
Staying there.
What are we doing?
And we knew there'd been a lot of trouble.
There'd been a lot of meetings going on and people were, you know, rumors flying and so forth.
So here we are out in the formation and
We said, what are we marching for?
And they said, well, they're trying to do away with hazings and we're going to.
That's the reason we're marching.
I thought to myself, you know, that sounds like a pretty good idea to do away with hazing.
And the band was lined up there and the commandant was Malloy.
Colonel Malloy was the commandant and a real soldier.
And boy, he came out there, and you could see fire in his eyes.
He said, okay, everybody, this man, back to the barracks, or back to the darms.
Nobody moved.
No one moved.
He said, okay, the band, turn in all your government-issued instruments.
So they started staggering out towards the band arm.
They put in their government issued, turned in their government issued instruments and then they came out with their own personal instruments.
So we still had a band and they struck up the band and off we marched and we marched to Gilchrist House.
Up on the corner there was what we called Jarge's.
That was about where the Trigon is now and there's a parking lot there but that's where Jarge's was and it was a confectioner.
You'd get donuts and I guess you'd get sandwiches.
I don't remember eating there, but I remember eating donuts and drinking coffee there.
And there was a post office in the same building and a barbershop in the same building.
And on the side of the post office was this big sign, Gibbs Gotta Go.
So anyway, we marched by Georgia's and we marched to the President's house.
And the president comes out and all the Corps officers, seniors get up there and they resign.
They turn in their buttons and their diamonds.
And so we dispersed because, you know, now it's anarchy.
No one's in charge.
We have no officers.
So we wandered back to the dorm.
Next morning we got up and we wandered to the mess hall.
At lunch we wandered to the mess hall.
And the freshmen thought it was great.
We were having a great time.
No formations, no orders, nothing.
And it wasn't too long after that that they kind of got things settled and some of the seniors took their rank back.
They had to sign, they had something pledged they had to sign or something.
So within a few days everything was back to normal.
But they were real careful about the hazing.
Now it still went on but they were real careful about it and if anyone ever got caught with
using a board, they were out of school, and the bulls would come in and pull a check, make you drop your pants and look at your rear end.
And some people got caught that way.
Some people got caught, I know one fellow that got caught, and I'm not
give his name because he's still prominent in certain circles.
But he was, a freshman was caught carrying his laundry from the laundry, which was just across the street in the Corps area.
And he said, this freshman was going over there.
And he said, well, if you're going over there, how about picking up my laundry?
And the freshman said, yeah, I don't mind.
And sure enough, they caught this freshman with this fellow's laundry and they kicked him out of the Corps.
So they were really watching.
And another thing that I never really was too sure about is that in the spring semester we had a faculty advisor that would come in and meet with the freshmen.
And now we had a great guy.
His name was Spike White.
He was in the intramural department or the PE department or something.
I think he was intramural.
I'm not sure what he was.
But anyway, he was really a tremendous guy.
And he helped out the freshmen.
And, you know, he was kind of like our father during all that time.
But I never really didn't know if these guys were, because we'd tell him what was going on, if they were really reporting back to the administration or if they were holding all this information in confidence.
And I understand Spike White went up to Missouri and he had some kind of camp up there.
And I always wanted to meet him.
But I never did know if he was an administration plant or just what the situation was.
I always thought if I ever see him, I'm going to ask him to see if he'll tell me that.
Describe what it was like for a new freshman.
What was the dining hall like and what was the ritual at your outfits table and so forth?
Well, of course, you marched to every meal and you sat at the table and it was all family style and everything had its own name, you know.
Shot was peas.
And I don't remember what all it was.
But anyway, it had names for everything.
And you had to call it by name and please pass the horse feed, I think.
That was lettuce and please pass the whatever.
And if you didn't use the right term,
No, they wouldn't pass it.
They wouldn't do it.
And anyway, of course, the upperclassmen got their portion first, and you got your portion.
And any time there's a bowl that ran dry, one of the freshmen had to get up and go get it replaced.
Now, you and your outfit were in Duncan.
We were in Duncan, yeah, eating in Duncan Hall.
And really, it ain't.
Meals weren't too bad.
I mean, you know, they'd ask us, they would ask us a lot of campusology questions and we'd have to, any time they'd ask us something, we'd have to hit a brace and do things like that.
Do you remember any favorite Cush questions?
Well, you know, upperclassmen would, it was primarily, primarily sophomores, you know.
They would always ask you what, when a certain building was built.
Well, I figured out that most buildings were built in 1933 and then I was,
probably smarter than those sophomores anyway, so my answer was normally 1933, and I got away with it through my freshman year.
I did know there was a few, you know, like Guyon Hall, I think, built in 1917 or something.
But there were a few, the more historic building, administration building, and things like that that had dates that most people would know, but these obscure buildings, they didn't know.
They just say 1933 and get away with it.
Were there some guys in your outfit that had special nicknames that are very memorable?
Well, I always remember Fish Pfluger from Pflugerville.
And Fish Pfluger from Pflugerville disappeared.
Now, that was the thing about it.
If you dropped out of the Corps, you dropped out of the university.
There was no such thing as going non-reg.
You just dropped out of the university.
And people disappeared in the night and you never knew what happened to them.
And Fish Pflugger from Pflugerville was one of those that disappeared one night.
Don't know what happened to him.
I can't really think of any, I'll probably think of it when I get home, but I can't really think of any.
We can fill those in later.
unusual names.
Describe going, academically, how did you select your first, how did you register that first semester?
Well, you registered in Sebisa Hall.
Now, see, when I, having worked in the stockyards and then become a cowboy at that time, I decided I wanted to work in stockyards when I got out of college and I wanted to be a commission buyer.
not knowing that the stockyards was soon to be, you know, past history.
And I was also thinking about well I might want to go to vet school.
I had a cousin that, well I actually had two cousins, but at that time I had a cousin who graduated in about 1938 or something in vet school, second cousin.
And everybody in the family thought it was so great that he was a vet.
And I thought well I might get down there and might just want to do that.
But I started out in Animal Husbandry and after a couple of years I decided that
I really didn't want to do that.
I needed to get in business, and I couldn't get in business without losing a lot of hours, so I went over to Ag-Eco, which was really, it was Agriculture Business Administration is what I majored in, so that way I didn't lose a whole lot of hours, and I forgot what the question was we were talking about.
How did you get your classes?
Oh, well, we got here, and
It was the old-time system where you would go over to Cebiza Hall.
They would have all these tables around the periphery.
And you would, if you wanted math 101, you went to the math table and they plugged you in.
And if you wanted biology something, you went over there and plugged in.
Well, then suddenly you'd get down here and there wouldn't be any room.
And so you'd go back.
to math and change math down to this date, and then you'd go over here and put something else in there, and it was a horrible system.
And it was especially bad if you were registering towards the end, see, and they'd do it alphabetically, but then it might, you know, the W's might be the first iteration next year or next semester or previous semester.
So it was just catch as catch can, and of course what you try to do, ideally,
You had no Saturday classes.
Well, we had Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday.
I think I went, it was my, maybe my junior year or my senior year before I didn't have a Saturday class.
But normally I had Saturday classes and the ag,
At that time, you had so many labs, and I had classes all morning and labs all afternoon for at least the first two years.
That first fall, did you have some memorable classes, some people you remember, some courses you remember?
Well, that English, that lady English teacher certainly was memorable.
But the others, I don't know, you know, they were so huge, like chemistry.
That chemistry lab over there, or not lab, but that auditorium, it was full.
And you'd go there and, you know.
And we had seven o'clock classes.
We were not getting any sleep at night.
We were under stress all the time.
So any chance you got, you slept.
Well the best opportunity you had to sleep was in class, and especially with a seven o'clock class.
And you imagine you had to get up in the morning, clean up your room.
clean up your upper-classmen's room, get in the formation, go to chow, come back, make it to a 7 o'clock class.
What time was Reveille?
I don't know, but it was mighty early.
Because I thought it would have to be.
Well we had to get up before Reveille because we had to clean up our room and clean up our upper-classmen's room.
So we didn't get a whole lot of sleep.
So therefore, you know, chemistry was one of those classes you normally slept in.
I think I had biology that year.
which was, you know, I always enjoyed biology.
And then you had English and you had animal husbandry, which was a lecture also, probably 200 or more in the lecture.
They had us set up in sections, and these sections would have pretty similar classes.
And we moved around.
You know, they may have given us
our freshman year.
I think maybe instead of signing up our freshman year, I think they just gave us the section and already had it all laid out and everything.
Because I remember I was with the same guys every class, essentially.
What was it during the week on a class day take me through the whole day?
What time, about what time did you get up?
What did you do?
When?
Well, probably got up by around 5 o'clock.
Anyway, it was early.
to get up and get everything accomplished in order to get to class at 7 o'clock.
And you had to clean up a room where?
In the dorm.
No, but I mean where was it from your room?
It was just down the hall.
I was real lucky because I had two seniors and they kind of took care of me.
And I could go down there and hide out in their room, make it like I was cleaning the room up, you know.
Hiding out was a big deal for freshmen.
I used to be able to go across this campus without anyone seeing me because I knew the back alleys, the new buildings you could cut through, shortcuts, that sort of thing.
But anyway, so not being seen was a big deal for freshmen to survive.
So anyway, we're up early in the morning, off to class 7 o'clock, get back just before 12, have formation, eat, then usually you would have a lab in the afternoon and hot foot it back.
I don't know how I got to all these classes really when you think about it.
I had like dairy husbandry was across the tracks, animal husbandry is over in the pavilion or in the animal husbandry building.
You've got English up here and then
Later on, we had classes down in what they called Splinter Village, which was over around where Zachary is now, I guess.
They were World War II barracks that they had moved in there.
And then in the afternoon, normally what time were intramurals or drills?
Well, intramurals would normally be about, oh, about 4, 4.30, 5, something like that.
And then we'd have to rush to get back for chow.
And we played, you know, football was one of the big ones and a lot of other sports.
They had individual sports like boxing and I never did do that and some things like that.
Then if you had any unscheduled time in the afternoon, what did you and your buddies do?
Well, we tried to, like we'd go to the library or we'd, if we could, if we could figure out some way, we'd, a lot of times, we'd hitchhike into Bryan.
And they had a bus that you could ride for 15 cents or something like that.
But we'd normally hitchhike, hitchhike into Bryan, hang around
meet high school girls at the ice cream parlor and that sort of thing.
Did you have to have a special permit officially to be able to do that?
I think you were supposed to.
I know one time a senior told me to go mail a letter for him, so I went to Bryan and I was sitting there in a booth.
Freshmen were not allowed to sit in booths.
I was sitting in a booth with
I think a couple of high school girls and this senior that I had gone to mail the letter for walked in.
He said, what are you doing here?
I said, I've been mailing your letter.
He said, what do you mean?
I said, well, I figured if I got to Brian, it would go off a day earlier.
What was his reaction?
Well, he just laughed.
He just laughed.
He knew what I was doing.
But we'd try to go in the brine if we could.
You mentioned the library.
Where would you go in the library?
Well, usually I'd go in that reading room.
That big second floor reading room?
Well, where they had all the magazines to go in the front door to the right.
That was the reading room.
I'd go in there and they had nice soft chairs.
You'd get a magazine and the next thing you know you're sleeping there.
And I would, a lot of time between classes that's where I would, I would go instead of going back to the, you know, you didn't want to go back to the dorm because they were waiting for you as soon as you got there.
So, and that was where having a veteran buddy came in handy if you could go to his room between classes if you had some slack time.
And, of course, we had to be in our room every night at, I guess, 7.30 and 7.30 to 10.30 studying.
Did you all pretty well study?
If we didn't sleep, I tried to study.
You know, I needed to study.
Boy, I was just struggling along, just holding on, you know, because I was overwhelmed with college.
I thought I'd gone to a good high school, but...
The standards were certainly different in college than they were in high school.
And that first fall, about how often did you go home?
Probably the first time I went home was Thanksgiving.
It must have been.
Court trip?
No, it was after the, after the game down here, I guess, or the game in Texas, wherever it was.
It must have been the game here.
But usually it was either Fort Worth or Dallas.
Well, not, oh, court trip, yeah.
Let's see.
I think the first core trip was in Dallas.
Now I may have gone home that weekend.
I can't remember.
But I know I didn't get home very much my freshman year.
And of course I had to hitchhike.
And if you were hitchhiking, where did you catch the ride?
Was it at Eastgate to go north to Fort Worth?
No, the Aggie line, the best I remember, it was the East Gate going south, but I think it was over in Bryan going north.
But I'm not sure about that, but that's what I think.
Now where in Fort Worth then did you catch that?
Well, just south of, of course, it'd be I-35 now.
It wasn't very far.
It was out near the Quartermaster Depot.
I remember it used to pass Quartermaster Depot.
I can't remember exactly where it was.
Of course, that's built up, you know.
Did you normally come down to Waco and then come across?
Come to Waco and then across.
And I tell you, I spent one of the most miserable nights of my life in Waco on New Year's, I think it was New Year's Day or I believe it was New Year's Day because we were due back the next day and hitchhiked to Waco and got there and there was a backlog of probably two or three hundred people.
And of course they were sending the freshmen out for wood and we scoured that entire country for this big fire, bonfire we had.
And fortunately, we had those old World War II overcoats, GI overcoats, and those were really warm.
So we had those old GI overcoats on, and that kind of helped us, plus the fire.
And I think it was probably 4 o'clock the next morning.
But every car that came by stopped and picked somebody up going on the A&M.
But that was really one of the most miserable nights of my life.
What about some other hitchhiking anecdotes?
Good or bad.
Well, you want to tell you about a friend of mine?
Sure.
A friend of mine was down in South Texas and a couple of Mexican fellows picked him up.
And they had a bucket of beer there, and they were drinking beer, and they told him, go ahead and have a beer.
So he thought, well, I better drink it.
If I don't, they're going to.
So he drank one, and pretty soon they were out of beer, and he thought to himself, man, they're out of beer.
And they said, oh, no sweat.
So they stopped.
They had some in the back.
They got in the trunk and brought in some more beer in the trunk.
But I hitchhiked one time from...
from Fort Worth to Laredo during the summer.
And I got stuck down in Dilley.
And man it was hot in Dilley, Texas and that was in July.
At the end of my sophomore year, and my sophomore year I really kind of cracked down on studying because I had made it through my freshman year.
Sophomore year I kind of cracked down on studying and applied myself because I had the time and everything.
And at the end of my
No, at the end of my freshman year, I joined the Navy Reserve.
And the reason I joined, because someone told me that you'd go on summer cruises every summer.
So I thought, well, you know, I'll get a free cruise.
I joined the Navy Reserve and I did go on a summer cruise at the end of my freshman year in the Navy Reserve on a destroyer down to Cuba and Jamaica and around.
And so that was my first military service was in the Navy Reserve.
And I don't remember a whole lot about my sophomore year other than, you know, we had, we were one of the few companies that had freshmen.
Actually, they were transfer students, but they were freshmen the first semester.
There were just a few on the campus.
The rest of the people, the rest of the freshmen were all sent out to, out to the annex.
Now, half of my class, half the class of 50 and 46 was at the annex.
And I was in the part that was here on the campus.
The next year they sent all of, and this is to get the,
freshmen separated from the upperclassmen.
But we did have freshmen in our company and they were transfer students.
And one of them was Ivy Johanson who wound up, you know, as a distinguished alumni and a three-star general and had a couple of Guatemalans that I've kind of seen over the years in the company.
And we had other people, you know, that went on to bigger and better things at the university.
That freshman year, you may have been frustrated at Thanksgiving.
Did you ever again think possibly about leaving A&M?
I don't think I did.
Except in 1948, let's see.
Somewhere along the line there was some kind of military crisis in the world and I thought, well, you know, I might just get called to active duty in the Navy.
That wouldn't be bad.
I wouldn't have to take these final exams and everything.
But that was just, you know, just thinking.
But I never did think about quitting anymore.
All right, when that first year or so, how did you and family communicate?
Did you make many phone calls?
No phone, never.
I don't know that I ever made a phone call from Texas A&M.
I wouldn't even know where to go, and you'd have to go to a pay phone.
To whom did you write letters?
I wrote to my mother and to my... And she was living where?
She was living there in Fort Worth, but I was, you know, my home was really with my grandmother, and I'd write my grandmother.
Did they write to you?
Every once in a while, yeah.
There weren't a whole lot of correspondence.
Did they send you any care packages?
I can't remember.
You didn't get much cush through the mail?
No, no, I can't say that I did.
And no girlfriend at that point?
Well, I had a little girlfriend when I was a freshman who was a high school senior for a while in Bryan.
And then my sophomore year, I think I, let's see, I think that was the year I was going with
I don't know, sophomore or junior year.
I was going with a girl who lived over at the East Gate and her father was with the extension service or something.
She was going to TSCW.
So you weren't getting much mail through that?
No, no, I didn't have a whole lot of time.
All right.
Your freshman year, describe what it was like on a home football Saturday.
What did, what was the routine for a freshman?
mainly was just the march in, you know.
You know, there's a lot of activity over in the Corps area and a lot of hoo-rawing and going on and march in and go to the game and you'd have the sophomores, you know, rotting your face a lot of the times.
And then when the game was over, if you won, well, of course you went out and got the yell eater and you threw him in the fish pond and had a yell practice.
And we had yell practice, I think,
Well, we had midnight yell practice before, and then we had a yell practice on either Tuesday, I think it was a Tuesday night over on steps of Guyon Hall.
And I know one time they said we're going to cut out, cut out midnight yell practice because they were using toilet paper, Aggie Confetti, and they were using up all the toilet paper and costing the school too much money.
And they tried to do away with it, but they never did.
Were you involved in any good bull pranks as a fish?
Well, I'm sure I was involved in a lot of them.
We used to drown out our sophomores and people like that every once in a while or people in other outfits we didn't like.
And then Jarvis Miller told me one time that we had drowned out a whole dorm.
We had, you know, stopped up the commodes and turned all the water on or stopped up the sinks and turned all the water on.
And he was telling me we had done that.
And of course, we spent time down in the steam tunnels going from place to place.
Yeah, when did you learn about steam tunnels?
Oh, as soon as I got here.
Really?
Yeah.
Who, do you remember who it was?
I have no idea.
How far did you ever travel in the steam tunnels?
Well, it was just in the core area.
Okay.
Yeah, we stayed in the core area.
What we would do, we would go in the steam tunnels and go down like over in front of the, we call them the jocks, the calved arm.
And we'd pick up their...
their benches and take them over to our place.
Well, you know, then they'd come and steal them back and everything.
And then one thing we did, and I never would do this, because I was always afraid of heights, even though I, you know, I've jumped out of airplanes and done things like that.
But I was, if I get up on a building and look down, I have kind of a funny feeling.
But we had the old water tower.
And on top of the water tower was this big ball.
Well, the object was to make sure that that ball was your color.
Infantry was blue, artillery was red, the cab was yellow, and so forth.
So you wanted that ball to be your color.
And so you'd get like a gallon of blue paint and you would crawl up to the top of that thing and crawl up and then pour the bucket of blue paint over the ball.
Well, we did that a few times, but I was one of the ones, I'm on the guard.
I'll make sure no one comes.
And, of course, the, you know, the bonfire was the big deal in your freshman year, building the bonfire.
Nothing like that.
Now, was there, this would have been in the fall of 46.
Right.
Was there, were there timber?
Well, it was the second year that they had had a,
From what I understand, the second year that had a center pole.
But what we did, we just cut the trees and stacked them up teepee style like a bonfire.
It was made out all of trees?
Yes.
Because see, before World War II, it was all trash.
Yeah, yeah.
About how long did you work on it?
Do you remember?
I don't remember.
I can't even remember being out in the woods cutting, you know, but I'm sure I went out somewhere.
But as far as I can tell, it was much smaller.
Oh, it was much smaller.
Yeah, it was one layer.
And it was on the drill field.
On the drill field.
Now that's not the year that the Texas Longhorn tried to bomb it.
Not that year, but I was down here when they did.
Were you?
Describe that.
Well, they came over an airplane and they dropped some like Molotov cocktails.
You know, it was stupid because there's no way they're going to set that bonfire on fire.
But they did.
They did bomb the bonfire.
Now we really protected the bonfire because we thought that the people from
Austin were going to come over and burn it down, and we had people out at each entrance to the university, one at the North Gate, one at the East Gate, West Gate, and so forth.
And I can remember one time being over to the North Gate, and we were there, and we had radios, you know, had a radio hookup and everything, and we got a report that there was a group of tea-sippers leaving Austin.
And then we'd get reports over the radio that they had gone through Bastrop.
And then they were spotted in Calwell.
Then they were just coming into Bryan.
And so we had axes and clubs and everything.
We were ready.
We thought they were really coming after us.
You know, we were stopping every car, entering the university, checking them out.
And we kept getting these reports, these guys getting closer and closer.
Well, you know, I realized later in life that there weren't any tea simpers coming over here.
Somebody just on the radio pulling our leg.
But boy, we ate that stuff up.
We really thought they were going to try to burn down the bonfire.
Then we had the outer circle of fires, and then we had an inner circle.
No one under any circumstances would go in the inner circle.
A few people could get in the outer circle.
And we stayed on, you know.
guards on Sully.
We had guards all around the campus and we'd be relieved.